## The movie recommendation system

This project is a machine learing project on movies dataset by using the colloaborative filtering techinques based on the user's rating history The dataset is from the MovieLens dataset. The dataset contains 100,000 ratings from 943 users on 1682 movies. The dataset can be downloaded from the website: https://https://grouplens.org/datasets/movielens/

## Installation

To used this project you need to install the following packages:
    
    ```sklearn```
    ```numpy```
    ```pandas```
    ```TfidfVectorizer```
    ```https://grouplens.org/datasets/movielens/ml-25m.zip```

### About the dataset
The ml-25m dataset is a collection of data from MovieLens, a movie recommendation service, that includes 25000095 ratings and 1093360 tag applications for 62423 movies. These data were collected between January 09, 1995, and November 21, 2019, and were generated by 162541 users who were randomly selected for inclusion in the dataset. To be included, each user had to have rated at least 20 movies. No demographic information is provided for the users, who are only represented by an ID. The dataset includes six files, genome-scores.csv, genome-tags.csv, links.csv, movies.csv, ratings.csv, and tags.csv, which contain information on the movie ratings, tags, links, and details, respectively. The ml-25m dataset and other GroupLens datasets are publicly available for download at the GroupLens website, http://grouplens.org/datasets/.


### Functions
The ``search`` function takes a movie title as input, cleans it remove the space and character with regex, calculates the similarity between the input title and all movie titles in the dataset, and returns the top 5 most similar movie titles 


The``find_similar_movies``function finds movies that are liked by users who have also liked the given movie and calculates a score to rank the recommended movies based on the ratio of similar users to all users who liked the movie.

### Testing

Enter the movies title: 
``Movie Title: Jumanji``
          score                     title                                           genres
1     57.008249            Jumanji (1995)                       Adventure|Children|Fantasy
156   18.757121             Casper (1995)                               Adventure|Children
313   14.880390  Santa Clause, The (1994)                             Comedy|Drama|Fantasy
578    9.382034         Home Alone (1990)                                  Children|Comedy
495    8.711980     Mrs. Doubtfire (1993)                                     Comedy|Drama
362    8.666058          Mask, The (1994)                      Action|Comedy|Crime|Fantasy
2526   7.959267         Mummy, The (1999)  Action|Adventure|Comedy|Fantasy|Horror|Thriller
721    7.539414            Twister (1996)                Action|Adventure|Romance|Thriller
579    6.375923              Ghost (1990)            Comedy|Drama|Fantasy|Romance|Thriller
312    6.231007           Stargate (1994)                          Action|Adventure|Sci-Fi

exit the program by entering: ``exit`` or ``end``

